The main purpose of this project is to build a face recognition-based attendance monitoring system for an educational institution to enhance and upgrade the current attendance system into more efficient and effective as compared to before. The current old system has a lot of ambiguity that caused inaccurate and inefficient of attendance taking. Thus, by means of technology, this project will resolve the flaws existed in the current system while bringing attendance taking to a whole new level by automating most of the tasks.

The main difference between this technique of attendance taking and generally used facial recognition technique is that there are no possibilities of false attendance in this technique.Our hardware is connected via IOT to web servers whose accesibilty can be controlled. During first half of lecture the hardware will be facing outwards the classroom thus capturing the images of students entering inside, after some predetermined time the hardware will rotate 180 degrees and face inside, during this time it will capture students leaving the classrom.Now according to time difference between intime and outtime it will mark attendance for respective subjects.

The technology working behind will be the face recognition system. The human face is one of the natural traits that can uniquely identify an individual. Therefore, it is used to trace identity as the possibilities for a face to deviate or being duplicated is low. In this project, face databases will be created to pump data into the recognizer algorithm. Then, during the attendance taking session, faces will be compared against the database to seek identity. When an individual is identified, its attendance will be taken down automatically saving necessary information into a database system. At the end of the day, the attendance information regarding an individual can be accessed from a cloud server.

In short, this upgraded version of attendance monitoring system not only saved many resources but also provide huge convenience to the authority as many processes is automated.
